## Question 6

We will denote the following quantities for $i = 1, 2$ where $i=1$ refers to the top mass and $i=2$ refers to the bottom mass

- $m_i$ Mass.
- $N_i$ normal force.
- $f_{i s}, f_{i k}$ static and kinetic friction respectively. 
- $\vec{F_{i x}}, \vec{F_{i y}}$ sum of forces acting on mass $i$ to the standard $\hat{x}$ and $\hat{y}$ directions respectively.



a)

The maasses accelerate in the same direction, therefore and because $m_1 \leq m_2$ I assume that $\vec{f}_{1s}$ is in the negative direction (towards the acceleration) because smaller mass moves faster, thus the direction that will slow it down is negative to acceleration. For the same reason, I assume $\vec{f}_{2s}$ is to the positive direction.

From Newton's second law:
\begin{align*}
\vec{F}_{1y} &= 0 = N - m_1g \Rightarrow N_1 = m_1 g \\
\vec{F}_{2y} &= 0 = N - m_1g - m_2g \Rightarrow N_2 = (m_1 + m_2)g \\
\vec{F}_{1x} &= m_1a = F - f_{1s} \Rightarrow a = \frac{F - f_{1s}} {m_1} \\
\vec{F}_{2x} &= m_2a = F + f_{2s} \Rightarrow a = \frac{F + f_{2s}} {m_2} \\
\end{align*}

Giving their acceleration.

b)

Solving for $F$:
$$
\frac{F - f_{1s}}{m_1} = \frac{F + f_{2s}}{m_2} \Rightarrow F = \frac{m_2 f_{1s} + m_1 f_{2s}}{m_2 - m_1}
$$

c)

Using the normal forces:
$$
f_{1s} \leq \mu_s g m_1 ~;~ f_{2s} \leq \mu_s g (m_1 + m_2)
$$

Thus $f_{1s} \leq f_{2s}$ so bound (using the lower of the two):
$$
F = \frac{m_2 f_{1s} + m_1 f_{2s}}{m_2 - m_1} \leq
\frac{m_2 \mu _s g m_1 + m_1 \mu_s g m_1}{m_2 - m_1} =
\frac{\mu_s g m_1(m_1 + m_2)}{m_2 - m_1}
$$

d)

The bodies slip and they are not moving with the same acceleration. Denote $a_i$ their accelerations.

Using similar steps to (a), and substituting the normal forces we get

\begin{align*}
a_1 &= \frac{F - \mu_k g m_1}{m_1} \\
a_2 &= \frac{F - \mu_k g (m_1 + m_2)}{m_2}
\end{align*}

Note that we can actually see that the larger body is moving slower like we expect.
